Documentation for BC Breaks and changes in 8.0 (#1427)
PrestaShop/docs: modules/core-updates/8.0.md

## PHP support

PrestaShop 8.0 adds supports for PHP 8.0 and PHP 8.1 and requires at least PHP 7.2.5.

## Notable changes

* Javascript files for migrated pages in the Back Office [now are written in TypeScript](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/23221) (related change: [#24791](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/24791)).
* Support for [legacy translation dictionaries][legacy-translation] (eg: `en.php`, `fr.php`..., deprecated in 1.7), [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/24401) from Core controllers. Only modules can still use this system now.

> * All modules present in the `modules` directory during the web-based installation process will be installed by default [unless the user chooses otherwise](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27099). Modules can use `Module::postInstall()` to execute code after the shop installation is done ([Read more](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/24676)).

Reviewer: Why specify the `web-based` here, it's the same thing when you install by CLI so no need to specify this here right? If it's about the possibility to unselect modules then we maybe need to be more accurate like:

`All modules present in the `modules` directory during the installation process will be installed by default (except in the web-based installation where you can unselect some of them https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27099).`

> * All modules present in the `modules` directory during the installation process will be installed by default [unless you choose otherwise](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27099), if you install from the browser. Modules can use `Module::postInstall()` to execute code after the shop installation is done ([Read more](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/24676)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* All modules present in the `modules` directory during the web-based installation process will be installed by default [unless the user chooses otherwise](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27099). Modules can use `Module::postInstall()` to execute code after the shop installation is done ([Read more](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/24676)).
```

* Twig has been updated to version 3. Deprecated features from [v1](https://twig.symfony.com/doc/1.x/deprecated.html) & [v2](https://twig.symfony.com/doc/2.x/deprecated.html) are no longer available.
* All upgrade scripts have been [removed from the Core](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/25794) and moved to the [Upgrade module](https://github.com/PrestaShop/autoupgrade).
* Using a hook alias will trigger a deprecation notice.

> * Historically the default Carrier's name was `0`, [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27439) it is `Click and collect`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Historically, the default Carrier's name was "0", [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27439) it is called "Click and collect".
```

> * Live exchange rate feature [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28177) from the core

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The live exchange rate feature [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28177).
```

> * In back office, the .rtlfix file [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28277). It means that if you use it, you'll need to port your changes inside the SCSS stylesheet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In Back office, the .rtlfix file [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28277), although support for such files remains. It is recommended to port your changes (if any) inside the `rtl.scss` stylesheets.
```

> * Version 8 comes with a [new Distribution API](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27632), and native modules are now available from the API dedicated to open source projects with a possibility to include your source of modules in the PrestaShop

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The [new Distribution API](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27632) allows modules to provide Module Manager with information about new and updated modules pulled from remote services. PrestaShop 8 leverages this new feature to handle downloads and updates for the project's modules.
```

> * Because of the [support for PHP 8.1](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28402) a lot of methods have return types now

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Because of the [support for PHP 8.1](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28402) many methods have declare a return types now.
```

* The logic for customers' login and registration [is now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27755/) split between two controllers (`RegistrationController`, `AuthController`). This might impact third-party themes and modules as the URL to the registration has changed.
* Before PrestaShop places an order [there is an additional request now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26048/), to see if the number of products in the cart is still valid. This might require third-party payment modules to implement the checks in their solutions accordingly.

> * A new password policy to manage password complexity [has been implemented](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127). This might require third-party solutions that generate customer data to implement changes accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Due to the new [password policy management features](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127), third-party solutions that generate customer data might require to implement changes accordingly.
```

> * In some countries, Google Fonts service has been judged incompatible with GDPR. We [changed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/issues/27541) how fonts are loaded in some places of the software. This should not affect your work, but spreading awareness around this topic is essential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In some countries, loading fonts through Google Fonts' CDN service has been judged incompatible with [GDPR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation), so [these fonts are now built into the project](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/issues/27541). This should not affect your work, but spreading awareness around this topic is important.
```

* In `checkout/_partials/steps/payment.tpl`, the ID `payment-form` has [been changed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/25069) to `payment-{$option.id}-form`.
* Empty state messages are now shown inside the block (as opposed to the top of the page) in pages like order history, addresses, etc ([read more](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26806)).

> * The theme [now supports](https://github.com/PrestaShop/classic-theme/pull/21) a new password policy introduced [here](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Classic theme [now supports](https://github.com/PrestaShop/classic-theme/pull/21) the new password policy introduced [here](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/).
```

### Back office interface

The Bootstrap version used in Symfony-based Back office pages has been updated from 4.0 to 4.4.

### Github Project

> System-specific files, like IDE configuration and generated ones by OS, are [no longer ignored by the repository](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28623). They should to be added to the [global .gitignore](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28623#issuecomment-1144575464).

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is really worth mentioning? And personally I think it was a wrong move - people will forget and these files will be accidentally added into the project. It has already happened.

Author: It's the standard in other projects. Sometimes we can make developers' life easier, sometimes, we can educate them :-)

## API Changes

### Changes

> ---

Reviewer 2: Putting these separators will break the bullet points markup
we're going to get this
```html
<ul><li>Item</li></ul>
<hr>
<ul><li>Second item</li></ul>
<hr>
<!-- ...and so on -->
```

Author: I'd keep it like this. It looks **much** better and more readable.

* `_PS_USE_SQL_SLAVE_` is now a boolean (`false` by default).

---

* `Access:`
  - `updateLgcAccess()` - optional value for parameter `$addFromParent` is now `true` instead of `1`.

---

* `AddressFormat`

>   - `_checkLiableAssociation()` - the parameter `$fieldsValidate` [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `_checkLiableAssociation()` - the parameter `$fieldsValidate` [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913).
```

---

* `AdminStatsTabController`
  - `checkModulesNames()` [now returns](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27091) `int` instead of `bool`.

---

* `Alias`
  - `__construct()` - The 4th parameter, `$idLang`, has been removed _(deprecated in 1.7.0)_.

---

* `Attribute`
  - Renamed to `ProductAttribute`.

---

* `CartRule`

>   - `checkProductRestrictionsFromCart()` - [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913) expects `CartCore` instead of `Cart` for `$cart` parameter
>   - `getCustomerCartRules()` - [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913) expects `CartCore` instead of `Cart` for `$cart` parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `checkProductRestrictionsFromCart()` - [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913) expects `CartCore` instead of `Cart` for `$cart` parameter.
  - `getCustomerCartRules()` - [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913) expects `CartCore` instead of `Cart` for `$cart` parameter.
```

---

* `Combination`

>   - `__construct()` - the parameter `$translator` [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913) takes `PrestaShopBundle\Translation\TranslatorComponent|null` instead of `PrestaShopBundle\Translation\Translator|null`
> 
> ---
> 
> * `Customer`
>   - object fields definition [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/) require `Customer::$passwd` to be `Validate::isHashedPassword()` instead of `Validate::isPlaintextPassword()`
> 
> ---
> 
> * `Employee`
>   - object fields [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/) require `Employee::$passwd` to be `Validate::isHashedPassword()` instead of `Validate::isPlaintextPassword()`
> 
> ---
> 
> * `OrderDetail`
>   - `checkProductStock()` - Renamed to `updateProductQuantityInStock`.
> 
> ---
> 
> * `Pack`
>   - `getQuantity()` - [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913) expects `CartCore` instead of `Cart` for `$cart` parameter
> 
> ---
> 
> * `Product`
>   - `getQuantity()` - [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913) expects `CartCore` instead of `Cart` for `$cart` parameter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - `__construct()` - the parameter `$translator` [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913) takes `PrestaShopBundle\Translation\TranslatorComponent|null` instead of `PrestaShopBundle\Translation\Translator|null`.

---

* `Customer`
  - object fields definition [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/) require `Customer::$passwd` to be `Validate::isHashedPassword()` instead of `Validate::isPlaintextPassword()`.

---

* `Employee`
  - object fields [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/) require `Employee::$passwd` to be `Validate::isHashedPassword()` instead of `Validate::isPlaintextPassword()`.

---

* `OrderDetail`
  - `checkProductStock()` - Renamed to `updateProductQuantityInStock`.

---

* `Pack`
  - `getQuantity()` - [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913) expects `CartCore` instead of `Cart` for `$cart` parameter.

---

* `Product`
  - `getQuantity()` - [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913) expects `CartCore` instead of `Cart` for `$cart` parameter.
```

* `Attribute`
  - Renamed to `ProductAttribute`.

* `Cart`

>   - `replaceZeroByShopName()` - the parameter `$tr` [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/26913)

Reviewer 3: The method is removed  

https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27439

Author: I see. It's because we're going through the PRs from one to another, and at some point, something that we've documented is not valid anymore.

I'll make sure to check the `Changes` and remove what is not needed anymore. Thanks for the review ❤️

Reviewer 3: You did a great job! I think for 9.0.0 we could be better on the BC documentation. Having a file with the PR number and the BC ( construct ,  method ... )  it would be easier to find the duplicates.

> * `Tools`

Reviewer 3: Deleted ?

>   - `addonsRequest()` - The values `partner`, `service`, `hosted_module`, `must-have-themes`, `customer_themes` and `native_all` are no longer supported.

Reviewer 3: Deleted?

  - This class [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27851/) extends `PrestaShopBundle\Form\Admin\Type\TranslatorAwareType`

* `PrestaShopBundle\Form\Admin\Sell\Product\Combination\CombinationStockType`
  - `__construct()` - The parameter `RouterInterface $router` [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27723).
  - `__construct()` - The parameter `bool $stockManagementEnabled` [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27723).

* `PrestaShopBundle\Form\Admin\Sell\Product\SEO\RedirectOptionType`
  - `__construct()` - [now takes](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/24878/) one additional parameter, `EventSubscriberInterface $eventSubscriber`

* `PrestaShopBundle\Form\Admin\Sell\Product\Pricing\SpecificPriceType`
  - `__construct()` - `$currencyByIdChoiceProvider` [now](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28068/) takes `FormChoiceAttributeProviderInterface` instead of `FormChoiceProviderInterface`

* `PrestaShopBundle\Form\Admin\Type\ChangePasswordType`
  - `__construct()` - The parameter `ConfigurationInterface $configuration` [has been added](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/).

> * `PrestaShopBundle\Form\Admin\Type\TypeaheadProductPackCollectionType`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `PrestaShopBundle\Form\Admin\Type\TestWithUnitType`
```

Author: thanks @okom3pom ! eagle-eye :)

### PHP

* `ApiClient::setSslVerification()` → Configure the client passed in the constructor directly.
* `CharacterCleaner::cleanNonUnicodeSupport()` → There is no need to use it.

> * `Configuration::clearConfigurationCacheForTesting()` → Use `Configuration::resetStaticCache` method instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Configuration::clearConfigurationCacheForTesting()` → Use `Configuration::resetStaticCache()` instead.
```

* `Tools::cleanNonUnicodeSupport()` → There is no need to use it.
* `Tools::safePostVars()` → Avoid using this method.

> * `Tools::redirectLink()` → Avoid using this method. Use `Tools::redirect` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Tools::redirectLink()` → Avoid using this method. Use `Tools::redirect()` instead.
```

* `Translate::getAdminTranslation()` → Use `Context::getContext()->getTranslator()->trans()`.
* `ProductImageFolderProvider` → Will be removed in the next major version. Use `ImageFolderProvider` instead.
* `TypeaheadRedirectionTargetTransformer` → Will be removed in the next major version. This transformer was useful when the form used a `TypeAhead` form type, with the new `EntitySearchInputType` it became useless because the format is more adapted by default and not complex enough to justify a transformer.

> * `Validate::isPlaintextPassword()` → Avoid using this method. There are [new methods](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/) to check the password correctness

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Validate::isPlaintextPassword()` → Avoid using this method. There are [new methods](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/) to check password correctness.
```

> * `Validate::isPasswdAdmin()` → Avoid using this method. There are [new methods](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/) to check the password correctness

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `Validate::isPasswdAdmin()` → Avoid using this method. There are [new methods](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/28127/) to check password correctness.
```

> * `admin-dev/filemanager/dialog.php` → code related to Aviary [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27751/) from the File Manager

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `admin-dev/filemanager/dialog.php` → code related to Aviary [has been removed](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27751/) from the File Manager.
```
